# Evolutionary Kuramoto dynamics unravels origins of chimera states in neural populations

The repository contains the source code, analysis workflow, and LaTeX manuscript
for the
"Evolutionary Kuramoto dynamics unravels origins of chimera states in neural populations"
paper by Thomas Zdyrski, Scott Pausl, and Feng Fu.

## Layout
- `src` Julia source code for running simulations and postprocessing data
-

## Reproducibility
The primary release assets are:
- The manuscript `papers/primary_manuscript/Report.pdf`
- Graph evolution animations `plots/animations`
- NetCDF data files `data/processed/netcdf`

The manuscript is available under [releases](https://github.com/TZdyrski/egt-kuramoto/releases).
The animations and data files are all available on Zenodo
at [doi:10.5281/zenodo.17135745](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17135745).

All generated assets are created using Snakemake.
They can be recreated by running `snakemake --cores 1`.
Warning: this will re-run the entire simulation suite,
which requires approximately 20 days on a single core of a Dell AMD EPYC 7543 (2.80GHz),
30Gb of RAM, and 1.7Tb of storage.

Instead of generating all release artifacts, including the NetCDF data files,
only the manuscript can be regenerated by running
`snakemake --cores 1 papers/primary_manuscript/Report.pdf`.
This will require approximately 3 days of run time, 30Gb of RAM, and 90Gb of storage.

If you have access to a multi-core machine, increasing the number of
cores in the snakemake invocation can speed-up runtime.
For this study, the simulation was run on a SLURM cluster
using [snakemake slurm plugin](https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake-executor-plugin-slurm).

## Developing
This code base is using the [Julia Language](https://julialang.org/) and
[DrWatson](https://juliadynamics.github.io/DrWatson.jl/stable/)
to make a reproducible scientific project named
> Chimera_EGT_Kuramoto

To (locally) reproduce this project, do the following:

0. Download this code base. Notice that raw data are typically not included in the
   git-history and may need to be downloaded independently.
1. Open a Julia console and do:
   ```
   julia> using Pkg
   julia> Pkg.add("DrWatson") # install globally, for using `quickactivate`
   julia> Pkg.activate("path/to/this/project")
   julia> Pkg.instantiate()
   ```

This will install all necessary packages for you to be able to run the scripts and
everything should work out of the box, including correctly finding local paths.

You may notice that most scripts start with the commands:
```julia
using DrWatson
@quickactivate "Chimera_EGT_Kuramoto"
```
which auto-activate the project and enable local path handling from DrWatson.
